(metal music)
Alright, let's talk about how to get
sort of a Bootstrap CSS Grid in place.
And while I think that you should try to,
I always tell people to embrace the flex.
Meaning, Grid is by nature very flexible,
very responsive, very able to sort of flex
to the actual size of the content
as well as how much extra space is around.
Whereas these Bootstrap based grids are extremely rigid,
in that you have 12 columns and you start to add them up.
So, first of all try to maybe adjust your zine
so that they work with how much content you have,
but that said, there is still valid use cases
for having a very rigid grid system.
So what you can do is, I've got this four items here.
I'm going to go to my grid and chop it up
into 12 different columns.
So we'll go in here and we'll say
grid-template-columns: repeat(12, 1fr)
and we will also forget the display grid
on the actual item itself.
Good.
Now, and we'll put some grid gap on there.
Beautiful.
Now we've got 12 different columns.
Each one eating itself up.
Now, I'm gonna show you one little like bug that I ran into.
I'm not sure if it's a bug or by design or whatever.
But if one of these things has like wesbos in it,
it's a bit wider.
You'll notice that now they are not equal,
because what does fr stand for?
Free space right?
And what happens is CSS Grid lays the items
out that it needs to first and then will
distribute the rest of the spots to it.
So this is eating into our free space.
So what do you have to do?
Do you have to take your 100% divide it by 12
and make each one 8.3%?
Well that still really doesn't work,
because you've got this grid-gap.
So do you have to like calc 8.3% - 20px,
well that also doesn't work, because there's
no margin on the left or the right.
Or clack, you get the point right?
It's not ideal to have to be able to do something like that.
So what I have found as a fix for that is
either you can go onto your item and give yourself
a min-width of zero and that will make each one
actually the same size and then you can deal
with any overflowing text or whatever.
Accordingly, which is great.
Or, and let me just double check that looks the same
in Chrome, yep.
So it works in Chrome as well.
But, I think ideally you would do
something like this, instead we'll bring back
that actual error here and we will do a minmax.
And you give it a min-width of zero and a max of 1fr.
That will give it a min-width of zero
and then however we still have to go on
to our item and give it a width of 100%.
And that will snap it back to what we're looking for.
Either one will work for you.
Sometimes you're gonna already going to be using minmax
so you can use that and just pop the width on there.
Otherwise you can pop a min-width, any width
on each individual one.
Let's go back to Chrome, double check
that's still looking exactly the same.
Good.
Now that we have this, what we can do is
we can start to go spanning our different items.
And one cool way that we could do that
is with CSSs variables.
So you could make a whole grid framework.
And I'm sure there'll be lots of frameworks
announced where you have like span three
or something like that, and that will span three for you.
But we could also do something like this.
We could say grid-column, and that is
going to just span one, each one of those will span one.
That's the actual default.
But we could change that to a variable
where we could make a variable called span
and set that to be one.
And then set that variable here to be span.
And then in each of your items,
you can overwrite that variable
with an inline style attribute.
You could say something like --span three.
And then it's going to override that span variable
on the item and it's gonna kick in to there.
So whatever you feel like.
I think some people still might prefer
just a nice clean class of span three.
But it's kind of neat that you can
also use CSS variables in order to dice it up.
Similarily you could also use that on your grid.
Where you could say style and then you could say
-cols is equal to 10.
And if I only wanted 10 columns, I could
go into here and I could then say
right here var--cols, and that would give me 10.
And I believe var will also give you a fallback,
so if it's not there you can fall back to 12
rather than having to set a variable like I did here.
I just showed you two different ways that we can do it.
So there we go that's 10, and if I were to
remove the number of columns that we have,
then it will fall back to 12.
That is how you do a rigid Bootstrap grid.
Let's actually fill this up here.
So, seven.
Good so we've filled up all of our spots here.
And then in this one, let's actually do
another nested grid inside of it.
So,
we'll go say .grid and then inside of that
we'll have items, maybe you'll say style equals --cols two.
Item times two, one and two.
And that will dice up it further into columns one and two.
You will get the sort of the double grid-gap
happening here and if you would like to get
rid of that so you have clean lines.
You can use a negative margin
that would offset it the same amount of the grid-gap.
So hopefully that helps.
I'm still not sure if people are going to
migrate more towards using a CSS Grid framework.
Like maybe Foundation or whatever will come out with one,
or if this will just be enough.
And for myself, I haven't used a grid framework
in many years just 'cause of I think that it's easier
to do it with Flexbox but that's another personal
choice that you can make yourself.
(metal music)